The President:
Hi, everybody.
I'm speaking to you this week
from a factory in Petersburg,
Virginia, where they're bringing
on more than 100 new workers to
build parts for the next
generation of jet engines.
It's a story that's happening
more frequently across
our country.
Our businesses just added
233,000 jobs last month --
for a total of nearly four
million new jobs over the
last two years.
More companies are choosing
to bring jobs back and invest
in America.
Manufacturing is adding jobs for
the first time since the 1990s,
and we're building more things
to sell to the rest of the world
stamped with three proud
words: Made in America.
And it's not just that
we're building stuff.
We're building better stuff.
The engine parts manufactured
here in Petersburg will go into
the next-generation planes
that are lighter, faster,
and more fuel-efficient.
That last part is important.
Because whether you're
paying for a plane ticket,
or filling up your gas tank,
technology that helps us get
more miles to the gallon is
one of the easiest ways to save
money and reduce our
dependence on foreign oil.
The recent spike in gas prices
has been another painful
reminder of why we have to
invest in this technology.
As usual, politicians have been
rolling out their three-point
plans for two-dollar gas: drill,
drill, and drill some more.
Well, my response is,
we have been drilling.
Under my Administration, oil
production in America is at an
eight-year high.
We've quadrupled the number
of operating oil rigs,
and opened up millions
of acres for drilling.
But you and I both know that
with only 2% of the world's oil
reserves, we can't just drill
our way to lower gas prices --
not when we consume
20% of the world's oil.
We need an all-of-the-above
strategy that relies less on
foreign oil and more on
American-made energy --
solar, wind, natural
gas, biofuels, and more.
That's the strategy
we're pursuing.
It's why I went to a plant in
North Carolina earlier this
week, where they're making
trucks that run on natural gas,
and hybrid trucks that go
further on a single tank.
And it's why I've been focused
on fuel efficient cars since I
took office.
Over the last few years, the
annual number of miles driven by
Americans has stayed
roughly the same,
but the total amount of gas
we use has been going down.
In other words, we're getting
more bang for our buck.
If we accelerate that trend,
we can help drivers save a
significant amount of money.
That's why, after 30
years of inaction,
we finally put in place new
standards that will make sure
our cars average nearly 55 miles
per gallon by the middle of the
next decade -- nearly
double what they get today.
This wasn't easy: we had to
bring together auto companies,
and unions, and folks who don't
ordinarily see eye to eye.
But it was worth it.
Because these cars aren't some
pie in the sky solution that's
years away.
They're being built right
now -- by American workers,
in factories right
here in the U.S.A.
Every year, our cars and trucks
will be able to go further and
use less fuel, and pretty soon,
you'll be able to fill up every
two weeks instead
of every week --
something that, over time, will
save the typical family more
than $8,000 at the pump.
We'll reduce our oil consumption
by more than 12 billion barrels.
That is a future
worth investing in.
So we have a choice.
Right now, some folks in
Washington would rather spend
another $4 billion on subsidies
to oil companies each year.
Well, you know what?
We've been handing out these
kinds of taxpayer giveaways for
nearly a century.
And outside of Congress, does
anyone really think that's still
a good idea?
I want this Congress to stop
the giveaways to an oil industry
that's never been
more profitable,
and invest in a clean energy
industry that's never been
more promising.
We should be investing in the
technology that's building the
cars and trucks and jets that
will prevent us from dealing
with these high gas prices
year after year after year.
Ending this cycle of rising
gas prices won't be easy,
and it won't happen overnight.
But that's why you sent
us to Washington --
to solve tough
problems like this one.
So I'm going to keep doing
everything I can to help you
save money on gas, both
right now and in the future.
I hope politicians from both
sides of the aisle join me.
Let's put aside the
bumper-sticker slogans and
remember why we're here,
and get things done for the
American people.
Thank you, God bless you,
and have a great weekend.